In this lesson, we'll set up a new free MailChimp account and connect it to a WordPress web site using
a plug in and the MailChimp API.
You'll learn a simple method of using the plugin to display an opt in form on your cadence website,
hosted at Flywheel and connected to MailChimp to begin collecting emails easily.
By the end of this video, you'll understand how to connect MailChimp to a WordPress website.
Enable the MailChimp API key and display an opt in form on the website.
Let's look at setting up MailChimp to collect an opt in to an email list on a real world website example
and get started with a free service for building an email list.
Up to 2000 contacts.
So what I've done is I signed up for MailChimp, which go to MailChimp dot com.
I clicked sign up, just ask me for email address, etc. password and sent me a verification email which
I then went back and verified and then clicked.
Yes, I'm not a robot, and so I'm logged in and it brought me to the account setup page and I can click
this free account.
It was already pre-selected for me with a 2000 contact maximum, and I can just click next.
So there's a few things that it wants, of course, in order to send broadcast or marketing emails.
You need a few things like a business name.
The website URL and phone number are optional, but it's going to ask you some things that are required
for the international anti-spam laws.
There you can use.
You can use a physical address alternative.
You can put an address in.
You can use a P.O. box.
And so I'll just pause the video while I put that stuff in.
And then we'll get started setting up a WordPress site to collect email addresses as if we were setting
up a website for ourselves or for a client.
So after putting in the address here, if you already have contacts, you could say yes and it'll let
you know or bring you to the airport where way of importing your contacts through a CSV file or another
way.
And so I'll just click No and then click Continue and then just asks you a little bit about what you're
doing.
Do you intend to sell?
No, I'm just going to click No and continue.
And this is whether you're going to receive emails, whether you choose to receive marketing emails
from MailChimp itself.
And then this is how you'd like to start.
And so really, I'll give you a little tour of how to set things up over here.
Really, what you'll do is not send the first email or an automation or build a website they can host
for you because we already have is a WordPress website.
And so if you scroll down here, it says there's one on the audience that's that's me.
And so really, all I need to do is look at the audience page itself.
This is the audience dashboard, and if I look under signup forms now, I can go to the sign up form
for this audience.
Now, under one MailChimp account, you can create separate audiences.
Those would be like separate email lists so you can manage multiple businesses through one account if
you like.
But now I know that each one of those contributes to the 2000 contact limit.
So I would recommend if you're setting up multiple lists to set up a new account for each one.
So you have that full 2000 person limit for each one of the businesses or websites that you're setting
up.
And so from here, you would go to the under sign up forms, go to the form builder.
You can click over here or click Select Over on the right and it tell it brings you to kind of a form
that MailChimp will provide for you, that you can embed on a website.
And we're going to do this a little differently working with WordPress, meaning we're going to use
a MailChimp enabled plug in there kind of just does this automatically once you connect it via the API
to your MailChimp account.
And so we can just leave this as it is, or if we want a very, very simple contact form, we can get
rid of first name and last name.
So, you know, if we just select that and it'll highlight yellow, we can click Delete and you have
to click Delete in our caps to confirm that.
And let's get rid of the last name field also.
And just make this into an email address only with a subscribe button, and then so that's the sign
up form.
You can also configure things like the confirmation thank you page, a welcome email when they sign
up and those sorts of things.
But once we've configured the form itself, then we can actually go back to just sign up forms here
and look at embedded forms.
And this is where it brings us to, you know what the form would really look like if we embedded it
on the web site?
And you can just click continue and and you can actually just take and copy this code and place it in
a code block or another raw HTML block on a WordPress web site and embed this this form, and it'll
be a working form on your WordPress web site.
But let's do it a little bit more advanced.
Let's return to forms just to get back here and under the account.
If you just click the account profile, pic right here and click Account.
Let's go over to extras and API keys.
What we want to do is create an API key that we can use on the website with a MailChimp powered plugin.
And so we don't have any API keys, so just click create a key.
I know it's created a key if you're going to create multiple keys, you can label it.
But just for convenience, I'm just going to click to highlight and click control.
See, I'm a keyboard to copy that.
And now I have the API key on the clipboard, and this is always copy about later.
If you just navigate to your account page and then under Extras API keys, you can get access to your
API keys there.
And so let's go to an active website.
I've got my flywheel cadence website that we created open in my flywheel account.
And here's the Greg Davies cadence WordPress dashboard, and in another tab, I've got the website itself
open.
If you remember, the home page looks like this.
And I figured maybe right on the home page here on the left hand side, we could put an opt in form
for joining the newsletter right on the home page there.
And so I'll go back into the dashboard and go to plug ins, add new and I'm going to look for a particular
MailChimp plug in if I just type the word MailChimp.
Let's see what we get here.
There's a bunch of different choices, right?
I look for plug ins that have a lot of active installations and that have, you know, a good reputation
and have been updated lately.
Right?
And so here's the actual MailChimp plug in, and I've honestly had better luck using a plug in not maintained
by MailChimp itself.
Well, this one looks like it has been updated etc and so I wouldn't hesitate to use this one with 800000
active installations, but I do recommend this MailChimp for WordPress plug in by Iberico.
It's been working for years and years.
They do keep it updated.
There's two million active installations, so I'm just going to click Install now and then click the
Activate button.
And so now we have at MailChimp for WordPress activated and I can click settings right here.
Now it says it's not connected, but all I have to do is paste my API key right there and click save
changes.
And it says that it's connected and then you can go to your lists here.
If you have multiple lists, then you can choose which list each of your forms you want to to join on
this website.
And so now that I have that connected, I go over here under the MailChimp for WordPress Settings panel
on the left side and click form.
And now I can just I can have a forum title.
And then here's where you select which MailChimp list should this form subscribe to?
That's the name of the list I could click.
Add new form.
Of course, I never selected a title.
I can just select newsletter, a newsletter often.
I think this will probably just be a title for me.
And and let's say I can choose to add some different fields.
I really just want the email address and the sign up button right there.
So once I have that, I can click save changes because I say I changed the name of the form.
And then you can have some things change here, like when you opt in.
When a user opted in, opt into the form.
This will pop up and in order to give them a success message or an invalid email address message or
things like that.
And then there are other settings specific form settings.
So use the double opt in yes or no.
So you know, it's a good idea to have a double opt in enabled to prevent any kind of conflict with
spam laws or anything like that.
What a double opt in means is that the person who signs up from the form doesn't really join the email
list until they get their email.
The first email you send them and they click the confirmation link.
And so using the double opt in, you can click yes or no right here.
You can update existing subscribers, meaning instead of creating a second subscriber, you can just
update an existing subscriber if they join that list again.
And there's other different changes you can make down here as well.
The appearance of the form, you can inherit it from the theme, or you can use some themes that they
include right here.
Let's just take or even just choosing basic would be like no styling and just would come from from MailChimp
itself, I think.
But let's let's choose in here from cadence theme, and we could see what this looks like.
And so all you do is select the shortcode and I'll click Control C to copy the shortcode now, and I
have everything so created and selected, so I'll go to all pages and that homepage and which is my
front page home right here.
It'll open up the block editor.
Now, of course, if you were already navigating to your own page and you want to edit that page, if
you're logged in, you get this edit page button as well.
But I'm going to go here and we're looking at now, the block editor here.
And suppose I wanted to do something like, you know, instead of having this, this profile right here,
I'm just going to have.
Join our newsletter.
I like the typography here.
It looks nice.
I'm going to remove all these blocks.
So that I have room I can leave, maybe this text block to talk about, like announcing what you'll
get if you sign up from with the newsletter, you know, and then just below it, what I might do is.
And a short code block.
So I'm just going to click there and click Control V and paste it, and let's click Update.
Now that's showing me the shortcut, but if I go to the homepage and click Refresh, see what I got
here.
Oh, nice, and in your email.
And this might be a description about joining the newsletter.
And so, you know, I'll just go.
Put my leverage WP scam email address and.
Click sign up, OK?
There's my sign up confirmation, all right, so let me check my email.
Oh, I've already received it.
I'm looking over at my other monitor.
I've received a MailChimp.
Email.
You know, this is great.
Let's see.
Can I bring this over into the window?
Sure.
Just bring this over here, says, please, please confirm subscription if I allow, it gives me a little
MailChimp link, of course.
And yes, subscribe me to this list.
And then so here it's asking me to confirm that I'm not a robot so that I will subscribe.
And I've just now double opted in to the website.
And so that's as simple as that.
Now, if I go back to the MailChimp account, let's look here at the audience dashboard.
And actually at all contacts under under the audience, I should now have to.
There we go.
So I've just joined the email list.
I'm subscribed.
It has the date.
So now within MailChimp, all I would have to do is go to an email campaign and click Create a campaign.
And now it's opening up, you know, a an email designer that I can use within MailChimp, which is
quite powerful.
And when I choose, you know, the the recipients and the from address the subject, and you can then
design the email using the classic builder or the new builder.
It looks like here and you can even save templates that you build from.
They have a lot of templates that you can start from here and you can build and send your group email.
It's as easy as that.
What a great system to be able to use to collect emails and build an email list for free.